





















 coronavirus
 












now schedul covid-19 vaccin appoint for age 16+
learn how to schedule
covid-19 vaccin faqs
new visit hours
ne a covid-19 test befor travel, school or childcare?








 800.223.2273
 


100 year of cleveland clinic


mychart


ne help?


giving


careers


search
























search





 cleveland clinic menu
 



clevelandclinic.org


find a doctor


loc & directions


pati & visitors


health library


institut & departments


appoint & access




mychartne help? 


 call for addit assistance
 800.223.2273





clevelandclinic.org

find a doctor


loc & directions


pati & visitors


health library


institut & departments


appoint & access












research
cleveland clinic focus cutting-edg research on the characterization, diagnosis, and treatment of a broad spectrum of diseas and conditions. learn how cleveland clinic caregiv pursu the guid principl of ‘patient first’ by improv patient care through research.









th futur of healthcar and research sinc 1921
sinc it found in 1921, research ha been an integr part of cleveland clinic’ mission. the founder believ it wa not onli import to treat patients, but also to investig the caus of disease. a centuri later, cleveland clinic is at the forefront of scientif discovery. our research are leader in grow field transform the way medicin is delivered, includ precis medicine, genomics, popul health and immuno-oncology. 
lab-bas and translat research work to uncov novel biolog pathway that contribut to a host of diseases, includ cancer, cardiovascular and metabol diseases, brain and eye diseases, and diseas of the inflamm and immun systems. they work close with clinic research from all area of cleveland clinic to translat basic biolog research discoveri into new diagnost test and treatments—includ medic devic and therapeutics—that will benefit patient worldwide.
pictured: one of the first instanc of ground-break research at cleveland clinic begin dure the 1920's. otto glasser, md, invent a way of accur measur the radiat dose be given to patient dure what wa then call roentgen ray therapi (radiotherapi for cancer). the groundbreak devic wa call a dosimeter.














ohio invest in our future
in partnership with the state of ohio and jobsohio, cleveland clinic ha launch the global center for pathogen research & human health to studi present and futur pandem threat and to develop novel diagnost tests, vaccin and treatments. the $500m center ($200m from ohio, $300m from cleveland clinic) will expand upon cleveland clinic’ exist program and expertis in immunolog research, with newli recruit world leader in immunolog and pathogen research as well as technolog develop and education.
th center is part of ohio’ $1b invest in northeast ohio to creat the cleveland innov district — a biomed hub that will drive econom growth and lead to improv health for ohioan and patient around the globe. as part of the innov district, cleveland clinic will join case western reserv university, cleveland state university, metrohealth, and univers hospitals. in addit to a focu on research and development, the center is expect to gener 8,500 job in ohio.

read the announcement
learn more about our research 




cleveland clinic research center & institutes


 cleveland clinic research center & institut 







 lerner research institute
 



home to all laboratory-based, translat and clinic research at cleveland clinic. our mission is to understand the underli caus of human diseas and to develop new treatment and cures. 

visit lerner research institut 






 c5research
 



cleveland clinic coordin center for clinic research is cleveland clinic' academ coordin center provid an academ focu to the design, plan and manag of clinic trials. 

visit c5research 






 neurolog institut research programs
 



conduct innov and collabor clinic research to understand neurolog diseas and to translat research result into best practic in the care of patient with cognitive, motor, or behavior challenges. 

view neurolog research program 









interest in nurs research?
cleveland clinic' offic of nurs research and innov can help
th offic of nurs research and innov encourag ani nurs who ha a research question, an idea for a research study, or an innov process, system or devic to come forward and pursu their ideas. oftentimes, the most import idea for research are those gener by clinician who provid direct patient care.
benefit of nurs research:

br improv to nurs practice.
provid best practic for nurs and patients.
enh patient advocacy.
adv the foundat of nurs scienc so it can be use by other nurses.

discov the power you have to transform nurs practice. learn more about our nurs research and innov program today!

visit offic of nurs research & innovation
whi nurs research is import 




want to support ground-break research at cleveland clinic?


w to support ground-break research at cleveland clinic? 

discov how you can help cleveland clinic save live and continu to lead the transform of healthcare. give to cleveland clinic 













 cleveland clinic
 new & more









show more








cal appoint center 24/7 866.320.4573
question 216.444.2200
request an appointment





 facebook

 twitter

 youtube

 instagram

 linkedin

 pinterest

 snapchat
 




actions

appoint & accesspay your billfinanci assistanceaccept insurancemak a donationref a patientphon directoryev calendar 


blog, new & mobil apps

consult qdhealth essentialsnewsroommobil app 


about cleveland clinic

100 year of cleveland clinicabout uslocationsqu & patient safetyoffic of divers & inclusionpati experienceresearch & innovationscommun commitmentcareersfor employeesresourc for medic profession 


site inform & policies

send us feedbacksit mapabout thi websitecopyright, reprint & licensingwebsit term of useprivaci policynotic of privaci practicesnon-discrimin notic 





 9500 euclid avenue, cleveland, ohio 44195 | 800.223.2273 | © 2021 cleveland clinic. all right reserved.
 






 