




dr. sunni sun chung' big data analyt and cyber secur lab, cleveland state univeristi 








big data analytics, ai and cyber secur lab
dr. sunni sun chung
se the colleg machazin (in page 3) featur dr. sunni sun chung 
electr engin and comput scienc (eecs), cleveland state univerity
email: s.chung@csuohio.edu


 



 research(current)

 publications(current) 
teaching(current)
 people(current) 






 
 

 
big data analytics, ai and cyber secur lab
 


big data is chang everi aspect of modern life.
research in big data lab focu on how to shape the chang by big data better 
 
learn more 








research areas







text analysi with natur languag process 
 •	big data analyt in text mine with natur languag process 
•	context awar medic question answer system with natur languag process 



machin learning/deep learning
•	machin learn base intrus detect in wi-fi network systems
•	deep learn for imag question answer system



cyb security
•	cyb secur and privaci in cloud base big data data analyt system 
•	privaci model of cloud base iot 



 real time 
 •	real time sentiment/opinion analysi of social network



big data analytics
•	tempor and spatial data process for sport analytics
• machin learn base identif of food desert defect in urban development



optimization

•	optim of big data process and parallel process system






select recent public (last 3 year only) 


peer-review journal publications
sun sunni chung and andrew yu, “tempor and spatial data process for basketbal game analyt for indentif of nba on-bal screen offens play”, in the he ieee transact on emerg topic in comput intellig (tetci), vol 5: issu 4, issn print: 5611-8939, dec 2020

sun sunni chung and andrew yu, “automat identif and analysi of basketbal plays: nba on-bal screens”, in the intern journal of network and distribut comput (ijndc), vol 7: issu 3, issn print: 2211-7938, issn online: 2211-7946, juli 2019

sun sunni chung and daniel aring, "integr real-tim big data stream sentiment analysi service", in journal of data analysi and inform processing, vol 6: no 2, issn print: 2327-7211 issn online: 2327-7203, april 2018

dorothi yiyan zhao and sun sunni chung, "machin learn base identif of food desert defect in urban development", work progress to be submit to journal of data analysi and inform processing, may 2021
peer-review confer proceed 

mike d’arci and sun sunni chung, “unsupervis topic model base text network construct for learn word embeddings”, in the proceed of the 18th ieee intern confer on machin learn and applications, boca raton florida, dec 2019
jinji liu and sun sunni chung, “unsupervis automat featur select for machin learn base wi-fi network intrus detection”, in the proceed of the 18th ieee intern confer on machin learn and applications, boca raton florida, dec 2019

sun sunni chung and jinji liu, “automat featur extract and select for machin learn base intrus detection”, in the proceed of the 16th ieee intern confer on advanc and trust computing, leicest uk, august, 2019

sunni s. chung and andrew yu, "framework for analysi and predict of nba basketbal plays", in the proceed of the 16th ieee intern confer on advanc and trust computing, leicest uk, august, 2019

andrew yu and sun sunni chung, "automat identif and analysi of basketbal plays: nba on-bal screens", in the proceed of the 4th ieee intern confer on big data, cloud comput and data scienc engineering, honolulu, may 2019

peer-review book chapter 

andrew yu and sun sunni chung, "automat identif and analysi of basketbal plays: nba on-bal screens", invit to be publish in springer' studi in comput intelligence, may 2019

peer-reviewed/profession workshop/symposium present 

sunni s. chung and daniel aring, “integr real-tim social media sentiment analysi use a big data analyt ecosystem”, present in the workshop on big data and hadoop distribut file system, cleveland oh, nov 2017
pan li and sunni s chung, “feder experiment cyber infrastructur testb (excit): industri and academia collabor on iot with case western reserv university. present and research demo in iot collabor symposium, may 2017

invit talk 

invit talk to ieee women engin societi invit talk on opinion analysi of social media data, jan 2018
invit talk to ieee comput societi invit talk on big data analytics, august 2017

research posters/demo 

jinji liu and sun sunni chung, “deep featur extract and select for network intrus detection”, in research day of engin college, oct 2018
mike d’arcy, utkarsh patel, and sunni s chung on “natur languag process with machin learn for semant document search engine” in research day of engin college, oct 2017
sunni s. chung and daniel aring, “integr real-tim social media sentiment analysi use a big data analyt ecosystem” in research day of engin college, oct 2017

undergradu summer research 

mike d’arcy, utkarsh patel on “semant document search with machin learning” summer 2017 fund by csu
mik d’arci on “semant document search with machin learning” summer 2018 fund by csu

research grant / propos (last 4 year only) 

iot collabor pilot grant propos titl “protect privaci in a distribut learn platform with a natur languag process example.” in collabor with ming-chun huang (cwru): award on dec 2018 in the amount of $20,000.00
nsf 17-570 comput and network system (cns) grant propos titl “democrat comput system design for privacy-sensit cloud/edg environment” submit on nov 2018 
initi seed grant propos to cleveland foundat for data analyt and cyber security, sunni chung, dec 2015 under acknowledg of formal csu presid berkman and execut resid dr. julien earl (now develop to iot collabor cwru-csu lead by dean sridhar)
iot collabor grant award: feder experiment cyber infrastructur testb (excit): industri and academia collaboration, pan li (cwru), sunni chung, and wenb zhao (csu). award $20,000 on may 2017 
frd-iot propos on cyber secur and privaci in iot infrastructur on public cloud, sept 2017
grant proposal; sunni chung(csu), pan li (case) “cyber secur and privaci of iot on public cloud with encrypt databas querying”, to cleveland foundation, juli 2017
nsf propos intension, sunni chung, dougla meil (ibm) and brian durkin (progressive): "intent of submiss of propos for award abstract #1550320 in bd hubs: midwest: seedcorn"

teach grant / propos (last 4 year only) 

univers tech support award for big data teach lab in comput science: award in the amount of $12,648, april 2018
built big data analyt research lab (fh305) in eec dept, colleg of engineering, sept 2018
grant propos on cross-disciplinari cours develop for big data analyt system in cloud base iot”, sunni chung (csu), pan li, (case western reserv university) to cleveland foundation, juli 2017

 award win senior research projects

 cerebro: real time secur servic (the first prize winner of 2016 senior design in colleg of engineering) by nick white, et al 
 semant document search with machin learning: sharesci (the best cs senior project winner of 2018) by mike d'arci and utkarsh patel
 urban real estat analyt servic (the candid of best senior project 2019 in colleg of engineering) by joel stell et. al.
 : document search engin for collabor content manag by nick mccoy, benjamin mckinsey, et al 

select public befor 2015

research & publications

sun s. chung, d. chung, “fault detect and diagnost use data mining”, in the proceed of 8th wceam, intern confer on engin asset management, hongkong china, oct 2013.
sun s. chung, d. chung, “integr asset manag with custom data warehouse”, 7th wceam, intern confer on engin asset management, deajeon south korea, oct 2012.
 white paper on complet kelli benchmark perform optim of secondari join index process for tempor tabl in tempor databas in in mpp parallel data warehous (pdw) system, optim r&d, dbs, teradata corp, el segundo/san diego, 2011.
 survey paper on research, propos and present on optim of correl subqueri process in major dbm industry, teradata corp. el segundo/san diego, 2010.
 white paper on research project: build sql-map reduc for big data process in in mpp parallel data warehous (pdw) system, teradata corp. el segundo/san diego, 2010.
 white paper on build tempor databas in in mpp parallel data warehous (pdw) system, teradata corp. el segundo/san diego, 2009.
 white paper on join index process for columnar partit databas in mpp parallel data warehous (pdw) system, teradata corp. el segundo/san diego, 2009.
 invent disclosur record (idr) for teradata on extens of null equal optim in the queri rewrit system, 2009 – in the process of patent under teradata corp, el segundo/san diego, 2009.
 white paper on predic simplif optim for queri rewrit subsystem in data warehous system, , teradata, ncr, el segundo/san diego, 2008
 white paper on mark_null_equ queri optim in queri rewrit subsystem in data warehous system, , teradata, ncr, el segundo/san diego, 2007
process aggreg queri over encrypt databases
sun s. chung, gultekin ozsoyoglu, accept to 2nd intern ieee workshop on privaci data management-joint with icd 2006, april 2006.

anti-tamp databas - part i: queri encrypt databases
sun chung, david singer, and gultekin ozsoyoglu, vldb journal on privaci preserv data management, septemb 2005.

queri encrypt databas - part ii: process aggreg queries
sun chung and gultekin ozsoyoglu, journal of privaci technology, 2005.

 anti-tamp database: queri encrypt databas - extend work
gultekin ozsoyoglu, david singer, and sun chung, in book chapter of research direct in data and applic secur xviii, sabrina de capitani di vimercati et al., (eds), kluwer academ publisher, prague, boston, 2004.

anti-tamp database: queri encrypt databases
gultekin ozsoyoglu, david singer, and sun chung, in proceed of 17th ifip 11.3 intern confer on data and applic security, estat park, colorado, u.s.a., august, 2003

ph.d. thesis
databas security: anti-tamp databases: queri encrypt databases
sun s. chung, depart of eecs, case western reserv university, september, 2006. 







teaching




advanc topic in databas system for big data 
 ci 611/cis711 enterpris databas system and data warehous with olap 
 ci 612/cis712 big data and parallel data process system 
view detail »


big data analyt with machin learning
 ci 660/cis760 data mine (data analyt and machin learning) 
 ci 695 special topic on data analyt and big data processing
ci 601 graduat seminar in comput scienc 
view detail »


enterpris databases
 ist 734 enterpris databas 
view detail »


databases
ci 430/530 databas system and processing
 ci 493/ci 593 big data 
ist 331 modern databas design and implementation
view detail »


other courses
 ci 408 internet comput (web application) 
 ci 465 multimedia
ci 433 system analysi method 
view detail »


introduction
 ci 260/500 introduct to program in java
esc 120 introduct to engin design
esc 151 c program 

view detail »








people





se the articl (in page 3) about big data lab and dr. sunni chung !

faculty: dr. sunni sun chung 
 ph.d. student 

•	yixi luo 
•	asanka kavinda mananayaka 
•	amro h. handousa 

 master thesi student 
•	sean riehl (ms), thesi title: “properti recommend system with geospati data analyt and natur languag process for urban land use”

•	yiyuan dorothi zhao (honor thesis), thesi title: “machin learn base identif of food desert defect in urban development” 

•	labhesh popoli (ms), thesi title: “an attent base deep neural network for visual question answer system”

•	daniel are (ms), thesi title: “integr real-tim social media sentiment analysi use a big data analyt ecosystem”

•	andrew yu (ms), thesi title: "automat identif and analysi of basketbal plays: nba on-bal screens"

 master project student (dure last 5 years) 
30 master research project student in independ studi 

 senior project student (dure last 5 years) 

20 senior student in the 6 prize win senior project team 
15 senior student current in the 4 senior research project thi year 

 post graduat student success from big data lab 
select list of the prestigi industri and academia where our big data lab student land after graduat 

 mr. michael d’arcy: current ph.d student at north western univers 
 mr. utkarsh patel: current in the master program at univers of southern california (usc) 
 mr. nick white: current with facebook and attend stanford university. previous with parker hannifin 
 ms. daniel aring: the first csu graduat data scientist current with first energi 
 ms. suhua wei: current with amazon 
 mr. durga p dasepalli: current with amazon 
 mr. sriniva tejomurthula: current with oracl 
 mr. andrew yu now teach at penn state univers erie, the behrend college

list of prestigi local industri where sever big data graduat are current with 

 cleveland clinic
 rockwel 
 progress 
 sherwin william 
 metro health
 medic mutual
 hyland software
 first energy
 ibm health 
 rock & roll hall of fame 
 so mani more 







big data analyt research member 2016 





 machin lear with nlp for text analysi research team 2018 




 big data process and machin learn for text analysis: senior design team 2018 





big data analyt research member 2019





 urban real estat project team: senior design team 2019 





 in the ieee intern confer 2019 on big data at hawaii 





big data lab workshop 2017





big data lab workshop 2019











send email to find out how to start learn and research big data analyt 





name

pleas enter your name.


e-mail

pleas enter a valid e-mail address.


message

pleas enter a message.

 send











csuohio










 